= iso-codes

A comprehensive database of ISO language and script codes.

== Installation

   gem install iso-codes

== Usage

Language codes can be looked up using +find_language+:

   require 'iso_codes'

   language = ISOCodes.find_language('lav')
   # ISO 639-3 reference name
   language.reference_name
   # ISO 639-3 identifier
   language.identifier
   # ISO 639-1 (alpha-2) identifier
   language.alpha2
   # ISO 639-2 (alpha-3) identifiers
   language.alpha3_bibliographic
   language.alpha3_terminology

=== Macrolanguages and individual languages

ISO 639-3 defines language identifiers that covers a set of other language
identifiers. For example, the identifier +lav+ for Latvian corresponds to
+lvs+ for Standard Latvian and +ltg+ for Latgalian. These identifiers are
called macrolanguages (see http://www.sil.org/iso639-3/scope.asp#M for a
more formal definition). See http://www.sil.org/iso639-3/macrolanguages.asp
for an overview of such identifiers.

Macrolanguage identifiers can be looked up in the same way as other
language codes:

   language = ISOCodes.find_language('lav')
   language.reference_name
   # => "Latvian"
   language.class
   # => ISOCodes::Macrolanguage
   language.alpha3_bibliographic
   # => "lav"
   language.alpha2
   # => "lv"

The individual languages covered by the identifier can be listed:

   >> language.individual_languages.map { |l| l.identifier }
   # => ["ltg", "lvs"]

For an individual language the macrolanguage, if any, can be found.

   language = ISOCodes.find_language('ltg')
   language.class
   # => ISOCodes::IndividualLanguage
   language.macrolanguage.identifier
   # => "lav"

== TODO

* ISO 639-1 and ISO 639-2
* IANA language codes
* country/region codes (ISO 3166-1 through 3)
* currencies (ISO 4217:2001 and 2008)

If you feel like implementing any of this, please fork the project on
github.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010, 2011 Marius L. Jøhndal.
